# SHARK
<u>**S**tructural **H**ealth **A**ssessment and **R**eal-time **K**inematics</u> observer (SHARK) is a real-time state estimation platform for fixed-bottom and floating wind turbines. Using a [semi-linear dynamics model](https://www.overleaf.com/read/vwhkfsmnwypk#2b01ba), SHARK computes a real-time state estimate using either an Extended Kalman filter or Square-Root Unscented Kalman filter (CITE).

# Preparation Steps

Due to the large file sizes generated by TurbSim and OpenFAST when run, the results of OpenFAST simulations are not included in the repository. To run SHARK, first TurbSim must be run to generate the correct .bts wind file and OpenFAST should be run to generate the correct results file. Details on running these can be found below.

# Running TurbSim

To run Turbsim and generate a turbulent wind file, first prepare the corresponding folder under OpenFAST/Turbsim. The folder name must match the input file name. In this folder, prepare the Turbsim input file for Turbsim v2.0. An example is provided for the Gulf of Maine Monhegan test site [CITE]. 

To run Turbsim and generate a turbulent wind file, do the following:

1. Create a folder under OpenFAST/Turbsim
2. Create a Turbsim input file in this folder with the same name.
3. Navigate to the home SHARK directory and open the "TurbSimDriver.m" script.
4. Adjust the variable "home_dir" as needed. This should be the current SHARK directory on your computer.
5. Replace the "input_case" value with the name of the folder/file you just created and run.

# Running OpenFAST
